# PX1080
This document describes the PX1080 diagnostic.

## Summary

| Code   | Short Description                                             | Type  | Code Fix    | 
| ------ | ------------------------------------------------------------- | ----- | ----------- | 
| PX1080 | Data view delegates should not start long-running operations. | Error | Unavailable |

## Diagnostic Description
Data view delegates should not start long-running operations. A data view delegate is designed to prepare a data set to display it in the UI. If the results of the long-running operation are not awaited synchronously, 
then the results of the data view delegate are returned before the end of the long-running operation. This scenario is not supported by the Acumatica Framework and may lead to unexpected behavior.

However, even if the results of the long-running operation are awaited synchronously, starting a long-running operation from a data view delegate is still strongly discouraged due to the following reasons:
- A synchronous wait until the data is loaded from the external service is bad for the user experience.
- The paging mechanisms of the Acumatica Framework may work incorrectly.
- The approach does not scale well. There are no observable problems when there are only 10-50 records retrieved from the external service. However, the solution rapidly deteriorates when the amount of external 
data grows to something like 50 000 - 100 000. Such cases were observed by Acumatica support.
- Any disruption of the external service (for example, some trivial issues after OS upgrade on the server) will prevent the affected Acumatica screen from opening. Neither Acumatica, nor the customization authors 
can guarantee the stability of the external service. Such situations take a lot of time and effort for investigation keeping the customer annoyed and frustrated with Acumatica even though the real problem was caused
by another service.

Long-running operations are started by the following APIs:
- `PXLongOperation.StartOperation` methods
- `ILongOperationManager.StartOperation`, `ILongOperationManager.StartAsyncOperation`, and `ILongOperationManager.Await` methods
- `IGraphLongOperationManager.StartOperation` and `IGraphLongOperationManager.StartAsyncOperation` methods

To prevent the error from occurring, you should remove the code that starts a long-running operation from the data view delegate and rework the related business logic. 

The alternative approach recommended by the Acumatica ISV Support team:
- If there is not much data to retrieve from the external service, then you can use a virtual DAC which is filled by clicking on an action.
- If there is a lot of data to retrieve from the external service, then you keep the data locally in the database. You should obtain the updates in the external service's data with a click on an action, 
and synchronize them with the locally stored data. The synchronization of data can be also done via the push notifications mechanism.

## Example of Incorrect Code

```C#
public class ShipmentProcess : PXGraph<ShipmentProcess>
{
	[PXFilterable]
	public PXFilteredProcessingJoin<SOShipment, ShipFilter,
	LeftJoin<Customer,
		On<SOShipment.customerID, Equal<Customer.bAccountID>>>,
	Where<CustomerExtension.sCust, Equal<True>,
		And<CustomerExtension.sReq, Equal<True>>>>
	ShipmentList;

	protected virtual IEnumerable shipmentList()
	{
		var sel = new PXSelectJoin<SOShipment,
			InnerJoin<BAccount,
				On<SOShipment.customerID,
					Equal<BAccount.bAccountID>>>>(this);
	
		PXLongOperation.StartOperation(this, delegate () //The PX1080 error is displayed for this line.
		{
			//update records
		});
		return sel.Select();
	}
}
```

## Related Articles

 - [Asynchronous Operations: General Information](https://help.acumatica.com/Help?ScreenId=ShowWiki&pageid=ed8c7ee9-3abb-4406-8e57-274e5d2aacaa)
 - [Asynchronous Operations: How They are Handled in Acumatica ERP](https://help.acumatica.com/Wiki/ShowWiki.aspx?pageid=97e2b9b6-4e6b-4816-a08a-9d13fb38a90e)
 - [PXLongOperation Class](https://help.acumatica.com/Help?ScreenId=ShowWiki&pageid=80f43327-6672-79c8-6f6c-051330483112)
 - [ILongOperationManager](https://help.acumatica.com/Help?ScreenId=ShowWiki&pageid=ddd29f07-a167-f6ca-e6da-abc59121863d)
 - [IGraphLongOperationManager](https://help.acumatica.com/Help?ScreenId=ShowWiki&pageid=5b50498f-8e28-86d0-65d6-c06fae88e40d)